<!-- TITLE: MongoDB Uni M220 -->
<!-- SUBTITLE: M220JS - BUilding a node.js mflix application with MongoDB -->

# MongoDB
## Arrays
Arrays in documents are first class citizens. In MongoDB, `find({ "countries" : "UK"})` will match all documents where the "UK" is one of the `countries` array elements.

If wanting to match on multiple array elements:
* `find({"countries" : { $all : ["UK", "USA"]}})` - will match those documents where countries is "UK" and "USA" only.
* `find({"countries" : { $in : ["UK", "USA"]}})` - will match those documents where countries is either "UK" and/or "USA" only.

## Aggregations
Pipeline stages:
* blocking - e.g. sort
* streaming - e.g. match


### facet
This pipeline stage runs multiple sub aggregation against the given (staged) set of documetns, returning back to the document set. Allows for multi faceted data analysis, such as count, sort by count and bucket: https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/reference/operator/aggregation/facet/.

## inserts/updates/deletes
`insertOne` returns:
* `result`:
 * `n` - number of documents inserted - should be 1
 * `ok` - should be 1 on success
* `insertedCount` - should also be 1
* `insertedId` - the `_id` (`ObjectId` if `_id` not given) of the document
	* Returns err.errmsg "E1100 duplicate key error collection" when trying insert document with the same `_id`

`insertMany` takes an array of documents to insert, returns:
* `result`:
 * `n` - number of documents inserted - should be the count of documents passed
 * `ok` - should be 1 on success
* `insertedCount` - should also be the count of documents passed
* `insertedIds` - the `_id` (`ObjectId` if `_id` not given) of the documents - note the plural name on this attribute (`console.log(Object.values(results.insertedIds))`

If wanting to insert/update a document, use `updateOne` with the option: `{ upsert: true }`, retruns:
* `nModified` - 0 if inserted, 1 if updated
* `upserted` - is the updated or inserted document with `index` and `_id`.

```
upsertResult = await videoGames.updateOne(
	{ title: "Call of Duty",
	{ $set: {
			title: "Call of Dutiy",
			year: 2018,
		}
	},
	{ upsert: true }
);
```

`updateOne` will return after updating one document; if there are many documents that could match, then it is undertministic which of those documents would be updated. When using `updateOne` be sure to filter on a primary fact. The update actions can be one of many different updates using any of the update operators, e.g.:

```
const updateResult = await theaters.updateOne(
	{ theatreId: 8 },
	{
		$set: { "location.address.street1": "this address" },
		$inc: {
			"accessCount": 1,
			"accessRemaining": -1,
		},
	},
);
```

`updateOne` returns `matchedCount` (should be one) and `modifiedCount` (should be one).

Complementary `updateMany`, `deleteOne` and `deleteMany`.

## write concerns
On any update, insert or delete.

A `writeConcern` of one with `w:1`, returns when the write has been written to the primary node only. The 1 is the default and is the number of nodes to write to. A `writeConcern` of  two (`w:2`), will wait for the primary and one secondary to confirm write. A `writeConcern` with majority (`w:majority`) will wait for both the primary and at half of all secondaries (majority of nodes) to return. 

A `writeConcern` of zero doesn't wait for any node to return; it's a fire and forget. Fastest way to write data but least durable. Good if data is temporal - e.g. stock price or weather temperature. Not, the write will fail if the network connection to the database is not available; it will simply return before confirming the data has been actually written.

# node.js
## Callback, Promise, async/await
Traditional Javascript callbacks can be passed into MongoDB APIs:
```
const insertMany = () => {
	const callback = () => { console.log("Done") };
	
	// Get the documents collection
	db.collection('documents').insertMany(
			[ {a : 1}, {a : 2}, {a : 3} ],
			function(err, result) {
				console.log("Inserted 3 documents into the collection", result);
				callback(result);
			}
	);
}
```

More atypical now that they simply retrun a Promise if no callback is given:
```
const insertMany = () => {
	const collection = db.collection('documents').insertMany([ {a : 1}, {a : 2}, {a : 3} ]);

	collection
		.then(result => {
				console.log("Inserted 3 documents into the collection", result);
		})
		.catch(err => {
			console.error(err);
		});
	}
```

That promise can of course be used in async/await approach:
```
const insertMany = async () => {
	try {
		const result = await db.collection('documents').insertMany([ {a : 1}, {a : 2}, {a : 3} ]);
	
	} catch (err) {
		console.error(err);
	}
}
```

## Recordsets
`findOne` returns a document or null.

### cursors
`find` returns a cursor, upon which you can call `toArray` to return set of documents.


```
  static async getMoviesByCountry(searchCountries) {
    /**
    Ticket: Projection

    Write a query that matches movies with the countries in the "countries"
    list, but only returns the title and _id of each movie.

    Remember that in MongoDB, the $in operator can be used with a list to
    match one or more values of a specific field.
    */

    let cursor
    try {
      // TODO Ticket: Projection
      // Find movies matching the "countries" list, but only return the title
      // and _id. Do not put a limit in your own implementation, the limit
      // here is only included to avoid sending 46000 documents down the
      // wire.
      cursor = await movies
        .find(
          {
            countries : { $in : searchCountries}
          },
          {
            projection: {
              title: 1,
            }
          }
        )
    } catch (e) {
      console.error(`Unable to issue find command, ${e}`)
      return []
    }

    return cursor.toArray()
  }
```

Against a cursor, common methods can be invoked including:
	1. project
	2. limit
	3. sort
	4. skip (only relevant when sorting)
	5. filter (query further on the recordset)
	6. batchsize
	7. min/max

To reset the cursor, use `rewind`. `read` returns a document if available, otherwise null. `next` returns a document if available and advance the cursor by one document, otherwise returns null.

This is equivalent (but not the same as) to stages in the aggregation pipeline, because when called upon the cursor, the action is being performed with the driver not the database (aggregration runs on the server).
	
> More interesting methods to explore on a cursor are:
> * stream (with transform)
> * pipe (used with streams)

> Cursor can fire any of the following stream (emitter) events:
> * data - for each document
> * close
> * end
